---
title: "roles"
author: "Daniel Fuller"
date: "22/10/2019"
output:
  html_document: 
      keep_md: yes
---



# Responsibilities of Supervisors and Graduate Students

### Endorsed by SGS Academic Council on September 19, 2016

The fundamental principle underlying this statement of responsibilities between students and faculty is that there must be mutual respect governed by high standards of professional integrity and ethics. These written guidelines are meant to identify, at a high level, guiding principles that can apply to all graduate supervisors and students to help both supervisors and students create and maintain a successful relationship, but are not meant to replace student-supervisor communication.

Supervisors  | Students
------------- | -------------
Supervisors should make themselves familiar with regulations of the SGS and their own academic units, keep abreast of any changes that might affect their students, and ensure that students are informed of these regulations.  | Students should become familiar with and meet all appropriate deadline dates and regulations associated with registration and graduate requirements, as specified in the appropriate regulations of the SGS and the academic unit.
Supervisors must convene meetings of students' supervisory committees at least once a year and should annually complete and submit to the SGS a detailed Supervisory Report Form for each student under their supervision.  | Students should assist the supervisor in preparing for the yearly report by providing relevant documents or information.
With the input of students, supervisors will provide clear guidelines of expectations from the supervising faculty member on their program, including timetables and milestones. This study plan will ensure students can complete their programs in a timely manner. Study plans should be challenging and feasible, and allow intellectual contributions from the students. Such plans should reflect short- and long-term academic and professional goals (e.g., publications, conference presentations, skills development, and awards) that will enrich students’ experiences and prepare them for the world of work. | Students will provide input for and meet the milestones reflected in a study plan to ensure timely completion. A reasonable research topic shall be identified as early as possible with the consultation of the supervisor. Students should understand that they are making a commitment to enhance the chosen field of study by developing expertise to a level of competence where new ideas and knowledge may be created. In consultation with the supervisor, the student will choose and attend appropriate professional activities.
Supervisors should initiate regular meetings with their students, according to a mutually agreed schedule, and make themselves accessible to discuss problems or issues that may arise between scheduled meetings. All students shouldhaveasupervisororanadvisorduring thecourse of the program, and should contact the Graduate Officer if they do not have one. | Students must maintain regular contact with the supervisor andthemembersofthesupervisory committee, and should meet with the latter regularly to review progress. Students should follow the agreed upon program of study(including thesis researchwhere appropriate) and endeavor to make acceptable progress towards program objectives.
Supervisors should make constructive suggestions on any written work submitted as part of their students' program, alert students to any perceived difficulties this work is likely to encounter, and return the work to students promptly. Supervisorsshouldmakereasonable effortstoensurethat theses are acceptable before they are submitted to the SGS for examination. | Where it is required, the student must agree to produce a thesis of his/her own work that reflects a capacity for independent scholarship in the discipline, and that meets generally accepted standards of quality and style. In the thesis, the student must acknowledge assistance, materials and/or data provided by other scholars, includingfellow students,companies,technicians,the supervisory committee and others.
Supervisors will endeavour to foster the development of professional skills among graduate students, including teaching, presentations, writing (including grant writing), and interviews. Supervisors will also encourage students to pursue professional activities and help prepare them to be competitive for employment by advising on career options within and outside of the academy. | Students will take advantage of skills development opportunities available to them, including workshops, seminars, and resources offered through the Enhanced Development of the Graduate Experience (EDGE) and within their academic units. Students will devote time and commitment to skills development as needed.
Supervisors should make reasonable efforts to ensure students have access to academic, financial and other resources necessary in order to complete their programs in a timely manner | Students should make reasonable efforts to become aware of appropriate sources of funding.
If students have been supported by funds from the supervisor's research grants, and such funds become unavailable, supervisors should attempt to give at least one semester's notice to these students to find alternative funding. | Students should assist in the securing of additional or alternative funding by seeking sources, completing forms, and providing information as required.
Supervisors should consult their academic units on the assignment of graduate assistantships, and ensure that duties assigned under such assistantships are appropriate, comply with the TAUMUN collective agreement, and do not impede the progress of students' academic programs. | Students should be aware of the TAUMUN collective agreement and guidelines governing teaching assistantships in their academic units and should carry out those duties in a professional manner.
Supervisors should discuss intellectual property issues with students, at the earliest possible stage of their programs, including any potential joint authorship that might arise from their research and any joint ownership of data or patents; supervisors should also make sure they adequately acknowledge any student contributions tomaterialthey publish. | Students must recognize that in cases where his/her research comprises a component of the supervisor's research program, questions of joint ownership of data and/or patents should be discussed. Questions regarding sole or joint ownership of data in such a research program must be resolved as early as possible in the life of the program, and the possibility of joint publication of research results discussed and clarified.
Supervisors should inform the students of the institutional ethical policies and the ethical standards of their particular discipline and should ensure that the students receive adequate training in those ethical principles. | Students should endeavor to understand and follow institutional ethical policies and should exercise honest and ethical behavior in all their academic pursuits, whether these pertain to study, course work, research, cooperative placements, community engagement, or teaching.
Supervisors should inform students of safety regulations on campus and encourage students to become familiar with regulations off campus. | Students should maintain safe work environments and discuss concerns with supervisors as soon as problems are noted. Students should become aware of and follow safety policies on and off campus.
During any extended period of absence from campus, supervisors must make arrangements for advising and supervising students while they are absent; such arrangements should be acceptable to their students and to heads of the relevant academic units. | It is the student's responsibility to keep the supervisor informed of where s/he may be contacted. Students should also inform the supervisor of any extended period of absence or the potential of such absence.
Supervisors should ensure that they do not exploit students for personal, financial, or professional gain. | If students feel they are exploited in any way they have the responsibility to discuss concerns with the Graduate Students’ Union, Graduate Officer, Head of Department, and finally the Dean of Graduate Studies. This list may not be exclusive.
Supervisors should avoid any attempts to indoctrinate students into their own political, religious, or other ideologies and prejudices. | If students feel they are being pressured, they have the responsibility to discuss concerns with the Graduate Students’ Union, Graduate Officer, Head of Department, and finally the Dean of Graduate Studies. This list may not be exclusive.
Supervisors should, in any case where disagreement arises between supervisor and student, approach (in consultation with the student if possible) the Head, Graduate Officer or othe rappropriate person to initiate a process for resolving the dispute. | In cases where there is disagreement between supervisor and student, it is incumbent upon the student, in consultation with the supervisor whenever possible, to approach the appropriate officials within the academic unit and/or the SGS so that discussions aimed at solving the problems can be initiated. The Graduate Students’ Union is available for information and advocacy as well.



